(GH-90) Converting to use new DSC modules Blog Post (#184)
puppetlabs/iac: _posts/2021-01-26-converting-puppetized-dsc-modules.md

---
layout: post
title: "Converting to use Puppetized DSC Modules"
author: pmcmaw
categories:
  - dsc
  - puppet
  - modules
tags:
  - tooling
  - dsc resources
  - windows
  - modules
  - forge
  - powershell gallery
---

## Why bother?

> The main reason we are advocating moving to this new and shiny method is that it provides you with a long list of advantages and new features. 

Reviewer: I think we'll probably want to link to/reference our announcement blog as a way to short circuit some of this explanation (and can maybe quote from it?):

https://puppetlabs.github.io/iac/news/roadmap/2020/09/21/dsc-release.html

We're literally just taking the underyling DSC resources, wrapping them and making them available to you.
If there’s a problem calling the DSC resources from Puppet, we’ll work on it, but if there’s a problem with how those resources behave, that’s upstream.

**Seriously though what is there to not love?**

* Minimal module maintainence costs
* Automated module building
* Property by property reporting
* VSCode Extension with intellisense
* We have 68 modules on the Forge in the [DSC namespace][dsc-namespace]

> * Converting is simple

Reviewer: Where possible, it's good practice to replace "simple" with another word or phrase, like "relatively straightforward"

- https://www.writethedocs.org/videos/prague/2018/don-t-say-simply-jim-fisher/
- https://www.cherryleaf.com/2018/01/dont-say-simply/

I'm _still_ trying to fix this in my own writing 😭

Author: They're great links, thanks for that. 
Today I learned "Not to use the term simple/simply when writing guides".

## So how can I do this?
*Old method:* 
```
mod 'puppetlabs-dsc', '1.9.4'
```

*New method:*

> ```

Reviewer: I've just realized, we need to rebuild all of these modules once we release `Puppet.Dsc` with your side-by-side changes, so the numbers for these will all look a bit different.

Additionally, these versions _should_ look like `3.1.0-0-0` - the fourth digit needs to follow a dash and the fifth digit references our build increment, which for all of these will be `1` or higher after we rebuild 😬

Author: Once released, I plan on going through updating and validating against the Forge :-)

mod 'dsc-xdismfeature', '1.3.0.0'
mod 'dsc-xdnsserver', '1.11.0.0'
mod 'dsc-xexchange', '1.27.0.0'
mod 'dsc-xfailovercluster', '1.12.0.0'
mod 'dsc-xhyper-v', '3.16.0.0'
mod 'dsc-xinternetexplorerhomepage', '1.0.0'
mod 'dsc-xjea', '0.3.0.0'
mod 'dsc-xmysql', '2.1.0.0'
mod 'dsc-xpendingreboot', '0.4.0.0'
mod 'dsc-xphp', '1.2.0.0'
mod 'dsc-xpowershellexecutionpolicy', '3.1.0.0'
mod 'dsc-xpsdesiredstateconfiguration', '8.5.0.0'
mod 'dsc-xremotedesktopadmin', '1.1.0.0'
mod 'dsc-xremotedesktopsessionhost', '1.8.0.0'
mod 'dsc-xrobocopy', '2.0.0.0'
mod 'dsc-xscdpm', '1.2.0.0'
mod 'dsc-xscom', '1.3.3.0'
mod 'dsc-xscsma', '2.0.0.0'
mod 'dsc-xscspf', '1.3.1.0'
mod 'dsc-xscsr', '1.3.0.0'
mod 'dsc-xscvmm', '1.2.4.0'
mod 'dsc-xsmbshare', '2.1.0.0'
mod 'dsc-xsqlps', '1.4.0.0'
mod 'dsc-xtimezone', '1.8.0.0'
mod 'dsc-xwebadministration', '2.5.0.0'
mod 'dsc-xwebdeploy', '1.2.0.0'
mod 'dsc-xwindowseventforwarding', '1.0.0.0'
mod 'dsc-xwindowsrestore', '1.0.0'
mod 'dsc-xwindowsupdate', '2.7.0.0'
mod 'dsc-xwineventlog', '1.2.0.0'
mod 'dsc-xwordpress', '1.1.0.0'
```

I know this looks like a lot of work, but really the work has been done for you! Just copy and paste the above code snippet. 

> > The modules above are alike to the *puppetlabs-dsc* module as we could possibly get. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The modules above are as alike to the *puppetlabs-dsc* module as we could possibly get. 
```

> It is strongly recommended to migrate to these versions and when everything is up and running, upgrading to the latest versions.

## A few caveats

> The following modules cannot be automatically puppetized at the same version because they referenced commit SHAs instead of versions discoverable on the [gallery;][psgallery] instead release the next stable version after these SHA's. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following modules cannot be automatically puppetized at the same version because they referenced commit SHAs instead of versions discoverable on the [gallery;][psgallery] instead, we recommend using the next released stable version after these SHA's, as listed below:
```

>_Note: These are close but not precise replacements:_
```
mod 'dsc-fsrmdsc', '2.5.0-0-0'
mod 'dsc-iscsidsc', '2.0.0-0-0'
mod 'dsc-wsmandsc', '2.4.0-0-0'
```
Here are links to the specific commit SHAs that have been referenced:

* [FSRMDsc][fsrmdsc]

* [iSCSIDsc][iscsidsc]

* [WSManDsc][wsmandsc]

>_Note: puppetized as dsc/wminamespacesecurity due to the name of the module changing when pushed to the [PowerShell Gallery][psgallery] vs the old code repository._
```
mod 'dsc-wminamespacesecuritydsc', '0.3.0-0-0'
```

* [WmiNamespaceSecurityDsc][wmiNamespaceSecurityDsc] 

## Guidance on troubleshooting

Coincidently [Michael][mlombardi] has just published a blog post on how to troubleshoot for DSC. 

Check it out on our [blog page][blog-page]! 

## Some things come for free!

We suggest using the Puppet VSCode extension as it comes built in with an auto-completer. This will help you keep your pins up to date with the puppetfile resolver.

![Showing validation errors in your Puppetfile](/iac/assets/2021-01-26-converting-dsc-modules/puppetfile-resolver.gif)

## What else is coming

> As part of our next phase we plan to flesh out and update our testing infrastrcutre for this module. In the pipeline, we still plan on getting nightly builds into place to ensure that there is never more than a 24 hour lag between published Powershell modules with dsc_resources and our Puppetized module on the Forge.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As part of our next phase we plan to flesh out and update our testing infrastructure for this module on our road to the `1.0.0` release of `Puppet.Dsc`.
In the pipeline, we still plan on getting nightly builds into place to ensure that there is never more than a 24 hour lag between published Powershell modules with DSC Resources and our Puppetized modules on the Forge.
```
